Update monitoring docs following the new UI (#4186)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/metrics-logging/monitoring.md

---
title: Monitor your Timescale Cloud services
excerpt: View logs, metrics, and performance insights for your Timescale Cloud services in Timescale Console. Get actionable tips to improve your service performance
products: [cloud]
price_plans: [performance, scale, enterprise]
keywords: [monitoring]
tags: [telemetry, monitor]
---

# Monitor your $SERVICE_LONGs

> $CONSOLE offers you a quick, convenient look into how your $SERVICE_SHORTs are performing and how to make them run smoother. This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$CONSOLE offers you a quick, convenient way to see how your $SERVICE_SHORTs are performing, and see how to make them run more efficiently. This includes:
```

> - **Recommendations**: tips to ensure your $SERVICE_SHORT is set up right and ready to achieve the best performance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Recommendations**: tips to ensure your $SERVICE_SHORT is set up to achieve the best performance. 
```

- **Jobs**: a list of all the jobs scheduled for your $SERVICE_SHORT and their status. 

> - **Connections**: all current connections to your $SERVICE_SHORT with the ability to terminate them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Connections**: a list of all current connections to your $SERVICE_SHORT. You can terminate any process in the list. 
```

Click on a $JOB ID in the list to view its config and run history:

![Job details](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/job-details.png)

## Connections

$CLOUD_LONG lists current connections to your $SERVICE_SHORT. This includes details like the corresponding query, connecting application, connection status, start time, and duration. 

To view connections, select your $SERVICE_SHORT in $CONSOLE, then click `Monitoring` > `Connections`. Click on a query name in the list to see the SQL:

![Connections](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/connections.png)

## Metrics

$CLOUD_LONG shows you CPU, memory, and storage metrics for up to 30 previous days and with down to 10-second granularity.
To access metrics, select your $SERVICE_SHORT in $CONSOLE, then click `Monitoring` > `Metrics`:

![Service metrics](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/service-metrics-timescale.png)

The following metrics are represented by graphs:

- CPU, in mCPU
- Memory, in GiB
- Storage used, in GiB
- Storage IO, in ops/sec
- Storage bandwidth, in MiB/sec

Hover over the graph to view metrics for a specific time point. Select an area in the graph to zoom into a specific period.

> Gray bars indicate that metrics have not been collected for the period shown.

Reviewer: Maybe after the screenshot.

`Queries` displays the top 50 queries matching your search. This includes executions, total rows, total time, median time, P95 time, related hypertables, tables in the columnstore, and user name. 

![Queries](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/query-insights.png)

| Column            | Description                                                                                     |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Executions`      | The number of times the query ran during the selected period.                                   |
| `Total rows`      | The total number of rows scanned, inserted, or updated by the query during the selected period. |
| `Total time`      | The total time of query execution.                                                              |
| `Median time`     | The median (P50) time of query execution.                                                       |
| `P95 time`        | The ninety-fifth percentile, or the maximum time of query execution.                            |

> | `Hypertables`     | Whether the query ran on a $HYPERTABLE.                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Hypertables`     | If the query ran on a $HYPERTABLE.                                                         |
```

> | `Columnar tables` | Whether the query drew results from a chunk in the $COLUMNSTORE.                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Columnar tables` | If the query drew results from a chunk in the $COLUMNSTORE.                                |
```

> | `User name`       | The user name of the logged-in user running the query.                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `User name`       | The user name of the user running the query.                                          |
```

> These metrics are calculated based on the entire period you've selected. For example, if you've selected six hours, all the metrics represent an aggregation of the previous six hours of executions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These metrics calculations are based on the entire period you've selected. For example, if you've selected six hours, all the metrics represent an aggregation of the previous six hours of executions.
```

<Highlight type="note">

If you have just completed a query, it can take some minutes for it to show
in the table. Wait a little, then refresh the page to see your
query. Check out the last update value at the top of the query table to identify the timestamp from the last processed query stat.

</Highlight>

Click a query in the list to see the drill-down view. This view not only helps you identify spikes and unexpected behaviors, but also offers information to optimize your query.

![Queries drill-down view](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/query-drill-down-view-timescale-console.png)

This view includes the following graphs:

> - `Execution time`: the median and P95 query execution times over the selected period. This is useful for understanding the consistency and efficiency of your query's execution over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Execution time`: the median and P95 query execution times over the selected period. This is useful to understand the consistency and efficiency of your query's execution over time.
```

- `Rows`: the impact of your query on rows over time. If it's a `SELECT` statement, it shows the number of rows retrieved, while for an `INSERT/UPDATE` statement, it reflects the rows inserted.

> - `Plans and executions`: the number of query plans and executions over time. You can use this to optimize query performance, helping you assess whether you can benefit from prepared statements to reduce planning overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Plans and executions`: the number of query plans and executions over time. You can use this to optimize query performance, helping you assess if you can benefit from prepared statements to reduce planning overhead.
```
